---
title: "Power Prediction"
classes: wide
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/Data Science/Power Prediction/burullus-260917-dji-0026-2.png
ribbon: DodgerBlue
description: "End to End Data Science Project on power forecasting of a compined power plant."
categories:
  - Data Science
toc: true
---

# Power Forecasting

Power prediction is important not only for the smooth and economic operation of a combined cycle power plant (CCPP) but also to avoid technical issues such as power outages. In this work, we propose to utilize machine learning algorithms to predict the hourly-based electrical power generated by a CCPP. For this, the generated power is considered a function of four fundamental parameters which are relative humidity, atmospheric pressure, ambient temperature, and exhaust vacuum. The measurements of these parameters and their yielded output power are used to train and test the machine learning models. The dataset for the proposed research is gathered over a period of six years and taken from a standard and publicly available machine learning repository.

We predicting the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant using [dataset](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Combined+Cycle+Power+Plant) from UCI Machine Learning Repository.

The accurate prediction of power generated by a plant helps in reducing various related issues such as power outages economic, and technical difficulties. In particular, an inaccurate prediction results in the rise of per unit cost of
electric power due to the high fuel consumption. Hence, in this work, we aim at achieving a precise prediction of
electric power of a base load CCPP on full load conditions thus ensuring decreased cost of per unit of electric power.
